DedicatedServerGuide.md, before:

## How to run server

- **Install SteamCMD** 
  - instructions: https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/SteamCMD
  - create user called `steam` or change `force_install_dir` to be your full path 

- **Install NuclearOptionServer**
template: 
```sh
steamcmd +force_install_dir <install_dir> +login anonymous +app_update 3930080 -beta <branch> -betapassword <branch_pw> validate +quit
```
example:
```sh
steamcmd +force_install_dir /home/steam/NuclearOptionServer +login anonymous +app_update 3930080 validate +quit
```
- **UDP ports** 
  - (defaults, can be changed in `DedicatedServerConfig.json`)
  - if running locally or behind firewall then these UDP ports might need to be opened to allow users to find and connect to the server
  - game port `7777`
  - query port `7778`

- **Run Server (linux)**
  - `cd NuclearOptionServer` enter the install directory
  - `chmod +x NuclearOptionServer.x86_64` *set server as executable*
  - `chmod +x RunServer.sh` *set the bash script as executable*
  - `./RunServer.sh`
    - `RunServer.sh` can be edited copied or modified to change how it is run

- **Run Server (windows)**
  - `cd NuclearOptionServer` enter the install directory
  - `./RunServer.bat`
    - `RunServer.bat` can be edited copied or modified to change how it is run
  - or run manually using `NuclearOptionServer.exe -logFile server.log -limitframerate 30`

- use `-DedicatedServer <json path>` argument to set custom config path
  - on linux this should be added to `RunServer.sh` 

- **Configure** `DedicatedServerConfig.json`
  - After first running the server DedicatedServerConfig.json will be created with default values, you can then edit this to change the server settings


example config
```json
{
    "MissionDirectory": "/home/steam/NuclearOption-Missions",
    "ModdedServer": false,
    "ServerName": "Nuclear Option Server",
    "Port": {
        "IsOverride": false,
        "Value": 0
    },
    "QueryPort": {
        "IsOverride": false,
        "Value": 0
    },
    "Password": "",
    "MaxPlayers": 16,
    "NoPlayerStopTime": 30.0,
    "BanListPaths": [
        "./banlist1.txt",
        "./banlist2.txt"
    ],
    "RotationType": 0,
    "MissionRotation": [
        {
            "Key": {
                "Group": "BuiltIn",
                "Name": "Escalation"
            },
            "MaxTime": 7200.0
        },
        {
            "Key": {
                "Group": "BuiltIn",
                "Name": "Terminal Control"
            },
            "MaxTime": 7200.0
        },
        {
            "Key": {
                "Group": "User",
                "Name": "Custom Mission"
            },
            "MaxTime": 7200.0
        }
    ]
}
```

### Mission Rotation

The `RotationType` field can be changed to tell the server in what order to play the missions. Set the value to one of the following numeric codes:

| Value | Rotation Method | Description |
| :---: | :--- | :--- |
| `0` | **Sequence** | Missions are selected in the order. |
| `1` | **Pure Random** | Each missions is selected at random, allowing for immediate repeats. |
| `2` | **Random Queue** | Missions are shuffled and selected in that random order, guaranteeing that all missions are played before the shuffle repeats. |

### Loading Missions

Mission group options:
- `Default` *loads from game files*
- `Tutorial` *loads from game files*
- `BuiltIn` *loads from game files*
- `User` *loads from `MissionDirectory` folder*
- ~~`Workshop`~~ *not implemented* (use `User` instead)

when using `MissionDirectory`, mission will be loaded at path `<MissionDirectory>/<name>/<name>.json`.

For example if `MissionDirectory` is `/home/steam/NuclearOption-Missions` and mission name is `test1` then the path will be `/home/steam/NuclearOption-Missions/test1/test1.json`

**note:** MissionDirectory should be a full path

**Important:** The mission folder name must exactly match the mission JSON file's base name.  
For example, for a mission named `test1`, the folder must be `.../test1/` and the file must be `.../test1/test1.json`. If these names do not match, the mission will not load.

#### Workshop missions
- Download workshop items using steamcmd. You must log in with a Steam account that owns NuclearOption (see [SteamCmd](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/SteamCMD)). Anonymous login cannot access Workshop content.
- After download, copy the mission folder to `<MissionDirectory>` and **ensure the folder name matches the mission JSON file** name as noted above.
- Use `User` group in `DedicatedServerConfig.json`.

Login and download (interactive login; you'll be prompted for password/Steam Guard):
```sh
steamcmd +login <your_steam_username> +workshop_download_item 2168680 <WorkshopID> +quit
```

By default, Workshop files are placed under `.../steamapps/workshop/content/2168680/<WorkshopID>/`. Locate the mission folder within that directory, copy it into your `<MissionDirectory>`, and verify the folder name exactly matches the mission's JSON filename.

Commit message:

add nat reflection note
Had an issue where the server wasnt listed in the game due to nat reflection being disabled

DedicatedServerGuide.md, after:

## How to run server

- **Install SteamCMD** 
  - instructions: https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/SteamCMD
  - create user called `steam` or change `force_install_dir` to be your full path 

- **Install NuclearOptionServer**
template: 
```sh
steamcmd +force_install_dir <install_dir> +login anonymous +app_update 3930080 -beta <branch> -betapassword <branch_pw> validate +quit
```
example:
```sh
steamcmd +force_install_dir /home/steam/NuclearOptionServer +login anonymous +app_update 3930080 validate +quit
```
- **UDP ports** 
  - (defaults, can be changed in `DedicatedServerConfig.json`)
  - if running locally or behind firewall then these UDP ports might need to be opened to allow users to find and connect to the server
  - game port `7777`
  - query port `7778`
 
  Note: If you are absolutely sure that your port forwarding settings are correct yet you cannot see your server listed in the game, check if your router has NAT reflection enabled on your port. This issue usually occurs when it's disabled and you're in the same network as the server. However, not all routers will have an option to enable NAT reflection at all.

- **Run Server (linux)**
  - `cd NuclearOptionServer` enter the install directory
  - `chmod +x NuclearOptionServer.x86_64` *set server as executable*
  - `chmod +x RunServer.sh` *set the bash script as executable*
  - `./RunServer.sh`
    - `RunServer.sh` can be edited copied or modified to change how it is run

- **Run Server (windows)**
  - `cd NuclearOptionServer` enter the install directory
  - `./RunServer.bat`
    - `RunServer.bat` can be edited copied or modified to change how it is run
  - or run manually using `NuclearOptionServer.exe -logFile server.log -limitframerate 30`

- use `-DedicatedServer <json path>` argument to set custom config path
  - on linux this should be added to `RunServer.sh` 

- **Configure** `DedicatedServerConfig.json`
  - After first running the server DedicatedServerConfig.json will be created with default values, you can then edit this to change the server settings


example config
```json
{
    "MissionDirectory": "/home/steam/NuclearOption-Missions",
    "ModdedServer": false,
    "ServerName": "Nuclear Option Server",
    "Port": {
        "IsOverride": false,
        "Value": 0
    },
    "QueryPort": {
        "IsOverride": false,
        "Value": 0
    },
    "Password": "",
    "MaxPlayers": 16,
    "NoPlayerStopTime": 30.0,
    "BanListPaths": [
        "./banlist1.txt",
        "./banlist2.txt"
    ],
    "RotationType": 0,
    "MissionRotation": [
        {
            "Key": {
                "Group": "BuiltIn",
                "Name": "Escalation"
            },
            "MaxTime": 7200.0
        },
        {
            "Key": {
                "Group": "BuiltIn",
                "Name": "Terminal Control"
            },
            "MaxTime": 7200.0
        },
        {
            "Key": {
                "Group": "User",
                "Name": "Custom Mission"
            },
            "MaxTime": 7200.0
        }
    ]
}
```

### Mission Rotation

The `RotationType` field can be changed to tell the server in what order to play the missions. Set the value to one of the following numeric codes:

| Value | Rotation Method | Description |
| :---: | :--- | :--- |
| `0` | **Sequence** | Missions are selected in the order. |
| `1` | **Pure Random** | Each missions is selected at random, allowing for immediate repeats. |
| `2` | **Random Queue** | Missions are shuffled and selected in that random order, guaranteeing that all missions are played before the shuffle repeats. |

### Loading Missions

Mission group options:
- `Default` *loads from game files*
- `Tutorial` *loads from game files*
- `BuiltIn` *loads from game files*
- `User` *loads from `MissionDirectory` folder*
- ~~`Workshop`~~ *not implemented* (use `User` instead)

when using `MissionDirectory`, mission will be loaded at path `<MissionDirectory>/<name>/<name>.json`.

For example if `MissionDirectory` is `/home/steam/NuclearOption-Missions` and mission name is `test1` then the path will be `/home/steam/NuclearOption-Missions/test1/test1.json`

**note:** MissionDirectory should be a full path

**Important:** The mission folder name must exactly match the mission JSON file's base name.  
For example, for a mission named `test1`, the folder must be `.../test1/` and the file must be `.../test1/test1.json`. If these names do not match, the mission will not load.

#### Workshop missions
- Download workshop items using steamcmd. You must log in with a Steam account that owns NuclearOption (see [SteamCmd](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/SteamCMD)). Anonymous login cannot access Workshop content.
- After download, copy the mission folder to `<MissionDirectory>` and **ensure the folder name matches the mission JSON file** name as noted above.
- Use `User` group in `DedicatedServerConfig.json`.

Login and download (interactive login; you'll be prompted for password/Steam Guard):
```sh
steamcmd +login <your_steam_username> +workshop_download_item 2168680 <WorkshopID> +quit
```

By default, Workshop files are placed under `.../steamapps/workshop/content/2168680/<WorkshopID>/`. Locate the mission folder within that directory, copy it into your `<MissionDirectory>`, and verify the folder name exactly matches the mission's JSON filename.
